In our tests.
We are returning three users and we are checking that there will be three users on the page.
But when we check the client on browser here we are seeing five users.
Picanto is pagination functionality for listing users and it is default behaviours.
Like if you don't specify any page or size parameters, it is returning the first page and it is returning
only five users.
Let's see the pagination functionality in detail.
So in this bigger screen we are just making direct API requests to the backend API users and we are
seeing this response.
So this is returning five users and we can set the size parameter and we can say just return three users.
So it is returning three users in this case and the total pages is calculated based on that.
So that's why we have nine pages and we can navigate to the next page by setting the page parameter
and page navigation is started from the index zero.
So zero is the first page.
And if you go to the next page, the second page is the index one.
So it is displaying the user for five, six and for the last page we have total pages and nine, but
for the page index we go to the eight.
So this is the last page.
And in that page we only have one user and that's the last user in the application.
So let's have the similar implementation in our tests and also let's make sure we are passing the size
parameter in the request.
So we will be receiving three users in each page.
So for this one, I'm adding a test to the spectators here.
So the test is going to be eight sense size four is three.
So we are going to handle the request.
And this request will contain parameters or the URL will be like this API once your users and there
will be size and the size will be three.
So then we will run the assertion.
Basically, this is asserting the request.
If the request does not have this parameter, the this request will fail.
But let's have an explicit assertion here.
So we are expecting that we can access to the size parameters like this request.
And from the request we can access to the request object.
And from this one, we can get the parameters.
And in the params we have the get function and we are looking for the size parameter.
And we are expecting this size to be three.
Moving the karma to the front.
Let's save this one.
Now this one is failing because this this part is basically failing.
We are not sending the size parameter in the request and we can fix it here in the user service.
We have this load user's function.
And when we are calling the client gate, we can pass options.
And one of the options is for the premiums.
And we are going to set size and it's going to be three saving this one.
Now we have a failure.
But this time another test is failing.
The failing one is basically the first test in this user list.
It displays three users in list.
And the failing reason is because now in each request we are adding this size.
But in this test, as the error indicates.
So we are receiving this request.
But our expert is basically looking this one.
It's not looking for the size attribute.
So we can fix it like this.
We can add size to this one as well.
Let's save it.
And you see the tests are passing.
And if he switched to the browser, here we are seeing three users.
If we open the console for the Chrome, let's clear the console, let's go to the signup page and let's
go back to homepage.
And here we are seeing we are sending a request to this end point with the size having the value three.
So as a result we are receiving three users from back end.
Now in the tests we are having this size in the URLs as well.
But this is a bit of fragile implementation because in future, if we change our implementation by sending
additional parameters in the request which we will do, then we need to come back to these tests and
update the URLs here.
Instead of having this specific path matching, we can go something like this, we can pass a function.
We did this before and we can just return.
We can just return true.
Like this.
So this would indicate don't care about the URLs, don't care about anything.
Just take the request and then we will continue our test and do whatever needs based on that request.
Since we are just testing the user list and it doesn't have any other API request, it is safe to have
this have it like this.
So let's do the same thing here as well.
And saving this.
And if you switch to karma here we see the tests are passing.
Let's also take one step further and let's implement the pagination functionality in the test as well.
So in the next part, we are going to have the navigations from one page to another and we need similar
pagination implementation for the testing here.
So for this one, I will have something like this.
At the moment we are having these three users, but I will go like this.
Here in the API records in this browser.
Let's get seven users.
And so we have users from 1 to 7.
And I'm just going to copy the raw version of this one.
And here removing this page, pasting the thing I copied and just keeping the the array here content
array this is the array having the users and let's have this in a variable called as users.
And I'm just formatting this document here.
So we have seven users.
Why seven?
Because in each page we are displaying three users.
So this is going to be the first page and we are going to navigate to the next page and we will see
four or five, six users.
And we also have one more page and the last page will only have one user.
So we are going to display next and previous buttons.
So we will need to navigate between these pages for those assertions.
So that's why I'm having three pages of user here.
And also we will have a function here.
It's called this one is Get Page.
So this is going to be basically generating the page object based on the page and size parameters we
are passing.
So like we can say page is zero and the size is three.
Then it's going to be returning these three users.
And when we set the page one and the size is three is going to be returning these three users.
So this is going to be the implementation for that logic.
So first we are going to slice the this users area.
So we are we need a starting point.
And basically the starting point is multiplication of the page and size.
So when the page index is zero and size is three, then the starting point will be zero.
And when the page is one and the size is three, then in this user area we will start from the three
index three, which means we will start from this one.
So to start is page times size and we also need an end and it is basically start plus size.
So we have the beginning and end of the the users.
We are going to return the page response.
So let's return the the response.
So we will have a content array which is going to be basically this user's arrays sliced version.
We will take the start end and here.
Then we have the page and size properties in this response, which are basically going to be the parameters
we are sending, and the last one is the total pages.
So this is indicating how many pages we have in the user list.
And this is going to be the calculation of math.
We will round the number up of this calculation, which is user's length, which is seven divided to
size.
So it's going to be 2.3, but we will round it up, which means it's going to be three pages.
So we are going to call this get page here so we can do something like this.
We can say get page and we can ask for page zero and a size three or since.
Now we are going to send parameters in these requests like this one.
We are taking the size and also we are going to take the page as well.
We can use those as well.
So for taking those values, let's have a helper function here and let's name it as parse page forums.
So this is going to be taking this request object.
We will pass that request as a parameter to this one.
Let's pass it.
And this the type of this one is test request.
And here we are going to take the the parameters like the size, just copying this one.
And we will also have another parameter which is going to be the page.
So these are the parameters we will receive.
Let's have them as variable, let's size and.
Page and we will just return it as object like this.
So for instance, in this one, we can, let's say called parse page params and pass this request.
And this is going to be returning the size and page back to us.
And these are typical request parameters, and they are going to be in string format.
So we must be parsing them to number because we are using number in the get page function so we can
do something like this.
Let's change this to let because we are going to override the values of these variables.
So we are going to try this number parse int.
So we are just going to parse the value coming from this one.
But this is complaining because this can be null, but let's say this is never going to be null by adding
exclamation mark and same thing for the.
Page.
So we have the values for these.
But in case these are not going to be number, we can do something like this.
We can check if the number is not a number we are doing just to be safe.
We are doing this just to be safe.
So the size is going to be, let's say, five.
So we are receiving a parameter, but that's not a number.
So let's make sure that the size has the value of five.
And if similarly the page is not a number, then let's make sure page is zero.
So in the end, either we get the size and page values from the request parameter or we go with the
default.
So in the test we can do like this.
We can call, parse, page, params, and we can pass the request.
And this is going to be returning the the page and size and we can get them by object structuring like
this.
Then we can pass them to the get page function here.
Like this.
So saving this one.
And this is also passing.